---
layout: post
title: Gravlax
description: Gravlax Recipe
date:  2019-01-06 18:34:06
categories: []
keywords: [food]
---

From Tom Berns:

**Ingredients**

*   2 large salmon halves or 2 large salmon fillets
*   1/2 cup Kosher or Sea Salt
*   1/2 cup sugar (can be brown, raw or granulated)
*   Lime juice — preferably from fresh lime
*   Soy sauce
*   Dill Weed — preferably from fresh dill
*   Ginger root — fresh peeled and frozen works best (grate in frozen state)
*   Pepper
*   Garlic cloves
*   Salt and pepper
*   Optional — hot sauce, or chilies for the Arizona palette

**Directions**

Ideally need 2 glass baking dishes, large enough to hold fit the salmon filets laid flat. A 13" x 20" casserole dish would work well. One dish will contain the marinating fish. The second will be on top of it with some added weight ie. a heavy book or two.

Important Note: Do not add too much of the salt and sugar mix to the fish, it may not be necessary to use all of the mixture. When coating the fish aim for creating a ‘crust’ of salt/sugar. Maybe an 1/8 inch crust, enough to coat the fish heavily, but not too much.

1. Rinse salmon and pat dry with paper towel. Salt and pepper the two halves. Pour some lime juice on both filets. Sprinkle both filets with soy sauce. Grate ginger on each filet. Add optional hot sauce to taste.
1. Mix Kosher salt and sugar together and spread generous amount on bottom of baking dish. Place #1 filet/half in the baking dish with the skin side down.
1. Cut slivers of garlic and spread over fish. Spread a generous amount of dill on fish.
1. Place second filet/half on top of the first, skin side up. (Note: the fish is placed meat side to meat side, with the skin sides on the top and bottom.)
1. Add more salt and sugar mix to the top of the fish. Put more dill on top of top piece of fish
1. Cover the fish with plastic wrap and place a second glass baking dish on top of fish and bottom baking dish. Place some weight in the upper baking dish, a heavy book or can of corn/beans.
1. Marinate in a refrigerator for about 3 days. A salt brine will form in the dish. Ever 12 hours rotate the fish and use a spoon to cover each filet on both sides with the brine
1. Test after 2–3 days. The fish will get mushy if it marinates too long. The fish should feel rather firm. Slice a piece off and taste for texture.
1. When done remove and pat dry. Slice thinly on a diagonal and it can be frozen in zip lock bags